Commuter Financial Aid

The financial aid that was given to me was based off of cost including dorms (~80k). The gift aid I received cut this number down to ~9k, and thus Id have to take out federal loans to pay this out. However, if I commute, would the total cost decrease to the point where I dont need to accept the federal aid?

You can look up the the exact costs of room/board, but you should know your FA package will decrease if you choose not to dorm and that’s because NYU knows how costly dorming is

I'm not sure about that, honestly. Maybe my situation is different, but I received a lot of aid from NYU as someone who commutes and they never decreased it. I assume that if NYU gives you your FA package, that's your aid for your time at NYU unless you lose the scholarship or appeal for more each semester. Is there specific FA for students dorming?

Your FA package is based on whether you check “will dorm.”

Where do u check this?

I called the financial aid office a few days ago and they said my Stern scholarship would not decrease if I chose to commute. You can call them and ask, but it shouldn’t decrease I think

The Stern Scholarship goes towards tuition. So it won’t decrease. If one doesn’t dorm only the money for housing will decrease.

Check what? Your FA package is based off the info you provide on FAFSA and one of the questions is about where you will live during the school year. Your entire FA package can only (possibly) cover up to the cost of attendance so based on what you answer for that your FA package will go up or down since the COA is a function of your housing situation (or maybe stay the same if it was a shitty offer to begin with, lol)

This is just blatantly false. Choosing to dorm or not to dorm didn’t affect NYU’s scholarship one bit.

u/xinsanityyxz don’t listen to this guy. Listen to undergrads not grad students. Totally different

You’ve no idea how FA works, lol. Everything I’ve said is easily searchable

Keep deleting your account you troll and wannabe know it all grad student

I’m pretty sure it does! If you decided not to dorm but said you were when applying then your financial aid it will be reduced ONLY until they the university is no longer paying you to go to school. The OP said the scholarship would cover some dorming fees. If they don’t dorm then that portion of the scholarship will be taken away. And they will just have a full tuition ride and maybe commenter fees.

Op included pell grant in his aid, without it then it would be just tuition

O yea I want to dorm, but my parents wont let me. They say im too young even tho millions of kids dorm my age

that sucks ! talk to your parents !!! college is supposed to be about getting away from home! and learning on your own

For this year, I stayed home after previously dorming. My CAS scholarship did not change with the decline of housing, but my Pell grant decreased a little bit

This happened to me when I first got my aid I emailed them and they took the dorming amount off and the aid package adjusted ... you should look at just the direct tuition payment amount to the school for how much you’ll actually have to pay.

How did it adjust? And yea, the CAS scholarship I received fully covers tuition and in another comment thread someone replied that the CAS scholarship wont change. So if u recommend to just look at the tuition payment then I guess I really have nothing to worry about

They just took off the charges for the dorming and the total COA went down

Wait so is there an area somewhere to state that you are commuting or do you have to contact them?

You have to contact them, I emailed and also set up an appointment with the financial aid office just to make sure they didn’t actually think I signed up for housing when I didn’t