NYU no one wants your rip off commuter plan 

And thats only if you're counting their "dining dollars" as equal value to real dollars.  A 50% valuation would make it $16.60 per meal and honestly thats probably still too generous a valuation for those "dining dollars".

That’s what the normal meal plan is too though.

What’s even more insane is Palladium used to have rats in the kitchen and had to shut down for a bit so I outright canceled my meal plan and just cooked the rest of the time 😂

Looks like they didn’t get enough people to sign up lol

If the food were great, that would be one thing. But after Palladium shut down because they got a C health-inspection rating (the exact year I lived there), I didn’t really want to bother with any of the dining options again. Don’t know how things are like now.

hi v unrelated but how do you get the school logo?

Go to the options bar on the sub (three dots), click change user flair.

NYU dining plans are scam in general, period. The only reason why they make the freshman to be on the max meal plan is because they need their money to stay afloat. Without your tuition money, they will have to close more of their dining hall and the union won’t be happy.

I bought one and it’s been fine. All healthy options in the area are very expensive so this was a good alternative.

Exactly. How much does a healthy, prepared lunch in the village cost? Sure I can get pizza and noodles cheaper, but if I want a freaking salad with meat in it, it's going to cost $15+. Not to mention the buffet style options.


NYU isn't unique in their dining options. Even in college towns, their meals cost $15. But in NYC, it's not the worst.


People just love to hate on the school they chose to go for some reason.

A pound of tofu, 2 bananas, and a bagel for lunch costs 6 bucks, provided you buy bagels in bulk.

Been eating that every day for last three years for lunch.

4 pounds of chicken ($25), 4.5 pounds of rice ($10) and some veggies ($10) lasts 5 weekdays for 9 dollars a meal.

Now assume weekend you live semi lavishly, 33.75 dollars per meal.

(6×5) + 45 + (33.75×4) = $210

Same as meal plan: 
15 dollars per meal × 14 meals a week = $210
😁

So let me get this straight: you chose to compare a prepared lunch out, to buying groceries? Are you serious?


It's quite obvious buying groceries and bringing your lunch is cheaper. 


This is a *prepared* lunch. You know, the kind you buy and eat.


Your argument is not against NYUs meal plan, your argument is making your own food vs going out. 


I'm not trying to be rude, but I really question people's ability to have legitimate discussions here.

For lunch prep, it requires 3 min in morning - literally shorter than wait time for most NYU food.

It requires zero knowledge of cooking, and zero kitchen.

So, for lunch, I can argue my method of "buying" groceries is the same as eating out in terms of ease.

And it is 9 dollars cheaper than NYU meal.

So $45 save worth that alone.

Again, you are making an argument on preparing a lunch vs buying a lunch.


No one is talking about how cheap or easy it is to make and bring your lunch. it is accepted by everyone that preparing and bringing a lunch is cheaper and probably healthier than any prepared lunch.



The question is, if you are going to buy lunch out, should you buy at NYU or buy at a Chipotle/Cava/Bodega/etc.


Again, no need to preach about buying groceries. What's next, you're going to explain the benefits of meal prep, too?

Ironically 15 isn’t too bad 😭 my school is like 16-18

Pictures look like shit too, what am I even looking at in the bottom two?

“For only $550!” Lol

I mean for nyu standards it’s fine. 

It’s a scam bc nyu dining is a scam overall, but we have like around 30 something days left of the semester, and each dining hall entry is around 17$. Soo off rip the plan is like 50-100$ less than if you were to go to the dining hall and pay with credit.