Browse Current Housing Rental Listings

The majority of the NYU Community commutes to work or class using public transportation as it is the fastest and most efficient way to get around. Below are links to commonly used transportation websites:

New York Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA) - subway and buses

To access the NJ Transit discount portal, eligible students will see the NJ Transit Card under the NYU Life tab or by using the search option in NYU Home: home.nyu.edu .

New Jersey Transit: NJ TRANSIT (not NYU) offers students who are Enrolled-Full-Time . Students can confirm their eligibility through Albert under the Academic Load field.

A 25% discount is offered for bus, rail, or light rail monthly passes. This is an auto-subscription program, each month you will get a new pass unless you cancel or suspend your account. There is a $3 processing fee each month for the program.

If you have an issue accessing the NJ Transit card in NYU Home please fill out this form . All other inquiries should be directed to NJ Transit's customer service .

NJ Transit Discount for Military Personnel and Their Dependents :  All military personnel and their dependents will be permitted to purchase transportation at the senior citizen/passengers with disabilities reduced fare rate upon showing their military or military dependent ID card. The following military personnel are entitled to this fare: Active Duty, Reserve, National Guard or Retired for Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines or Coast Guard.

Visit the New Jersey Transit website for more information on the Student Discount Program or call Customer Service at (800) 772-2287.

Metropolitan Transit Authority : Although student discounts are not available for MTA subway and bus users, you can save money based on what you purchase.

Amtrak : Discounts are available for students who have a Student Advantage Card, an International Student Identification Card, are active US Military personnel, or AAA members.

MetroNorth and the Long Island Rail Road : Provides discounts based on the type of pass or tickets purchased.  Visit their respective pages for more information about the discounts.

For your convenience, the Center for Student Life has compiled these resources as a starting point for your research. NYU does not have any relationship with these companies, unless otherwise noted, and inclusion on this list does not constitute a recommendation or endorsement.

If you have comments about any of the vendors listed, or suggestions for new vendors, contact studentlife@nyu.edu

NYU Mail & Copy Services

Thank you for taking the time to give us feedback.

Your feedback is essential to helping us improve the website.

Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination at NYU – New York University is committed to maintaining an environment that encourages and fosters respect for individual values and appropriate conduct among all persons. In all University spaces—physical and digital—programming, activities, and events are carried out in accordance with applicable law as well as University policy, which includes but is not limited to its Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy .

Unless otherwise noted, all content copyright New York University. All rights reserved.