Commuter kids, what do you not leave the house without?

Starting commuting again after a few years away from city school life, what can you not live without that isn’t the standard laptop and notebook? 

I’m thinking,
Portable charger,
Charger cable to go with,
Maybe food because NYC is expensive as always. 
But I can’t think of anything else!

EDIT: Okay we have the basics: keys, wallet and phone, water and others like headphones, umbrella, &amp; a change of clothes. Anything that people wouldn’t think of?

As a commuter. I always kept a water bottle and a small umbrella handy.

Wallet. Water.

Condoms
The commute is wild

😆😆 gave me a good laugh!

Which subway line would you recommend?

For scientific purposes.

There's a reason why they labeled the F train 
F*** train

F train is always wild.

Carry around a small bag of cereal.

Ha yea I’m literally getting reusable ziplock bags from Target (not Stasher brand because those are overpriced 👋🏻) to stuff little snacks in them 🙌🏻😊

Airpods

noise cancelling headphones

Remind me! 1 month

thermos/mug, calculator, pens

im a fatass so snacks snacks snacks

Wireless soundproof headphones, umbrella, big ass water bottle that i fill on campus often, portable with 6 foot cable and a big ass head that charges my phone quick, like 10-20 dollars cash because not everywhere accepts card, i used to carry a small pocket knife when i went to work over the summer because i used to travel late and in some hood ass neighborhoods but i dont know the campus policy about it so i never did, if its chill ill bring it with me to campus tho

Why would you need that?

Gym

You take a shower at the gym too then?

Yeah ofc

I love this, I babysit kids and I have their spares and I think to myself, if something happens, what the hell am I going to wear? 

I’m planning on having a whole outfit in my lightest fabrics, so they don’t take up too much space.

&gt;I love this, I babysit kids and I have their spares

i read this, and my brain pictured you walking around with spare kids.

"Hey, did u lose a kid? Here, have a spare. It's why I have them."

🤣🤣

I always carry those pepto bismol chewable tablets. Saved my life more than once on the slow train rides home!

LOL now it’s turning into my suitcase for traveling out here. I survive on those, me and flights just don’t go together. 👋🏻 Love these!

tissues &amp; hand sanitizer esp with the pandemic still lingering BUT they're still rly handy

Wallet Phone Water cereal. Pack light. Also you can just rent a laptop from Bobst.

Phone keys wallet

most of the time clothes i would say?

Band aids