incoming freshman commuter. how do you throw yourself out there? is the dorming experience better than being a commuter? should i be worried about making friends?

i haven’t been paying any attention to college this summer. now that it’s only a week or so away, i am starting to get worried that my expectations won’t live up to what i want. will nyu be fun? i know it’s what you make of it, but how do you make it fun? where do you go and what should one do? my other friends are having a blast at their colleges already. i fear that i won’t. any advice? thank you
if any commuters want to reach out or anything, feel free to pm me

i will be honest: as an introvert and commuter, i have struggled making friends at nyu. not to mention, i lost my first two years to covid/online classes (excluding my first semester, fall 2019) so your experience might be totally different. i often had to go straight home right after class so i wouldn’t have to commute home when it gets dark and more dangerous.

i’m an IR major and studying abroad for a sem is a requirement. studying abroad/being in a dorm was the only way i have made any friends at this school :( i will say i didn’t make any effort to make friends before this and classes were mostly online for me so i’m sure if you try to reach out to people and socialize with people around you in class you’ll be fine. and of course there’s events for commuters specifically where you can meet others who might live near you.

if you do notice yourself struggling to make friends and wanting to dorm, i definitely suggest studying abroad! not only is studying abroad a wonderful experience, dorming in campuses abroad is so much cheaper than dorming in nyc. even a semester there can help you make friends.

good luck! :) pm me if you have any other questions

Go to welcome week events and club fest and join as many clubs as you can!! There is no obligation for most clubs and you can drop them if you want. Definitely also join clubs that are close to your major, like if you’re IR or poli sci, join model un.

Nyu is a lonely place