Commuters, how is your college experience?

Next year I’m going to be commuting from NJ all the way down to Brooklyn, I wanted to ask others here who may also be commuting from Jersey. Do you feel isolated from the rest of the students here? Is it exhausting having to commute almost daily? I feel like NYU already not having a campus, along with Tandon being even more separated, could give me trouble with making friends and all that. How difficult is it to be in clubs? I’ve heard that most of the activities would be at night, so how would you manage that?

Thanks!

As a commuter student that commuted from Staten island during the first semester of my freshman year…. It was TERRIBLE… I had a nonexistent social life and it was impossible to make friends.. Going to clubs were inconvenient because of the time conflicts and I lose even more time commuting back home.. Glad I stopped commuting after that semester.

Did NYU help you financially cover dorming costs?

Unfortunately no

damn.. that bad eh?

West New York, New Jersey commuter here!! 

Exhausting. Exhausting. Exhausting. Prep your meals and carry a book bag. It is isolating and the commuting is just brain boggling. Sometimes I zone out and it helps make the commute go faster. Being in clubs depends on YOUR Input and consistency. 

But hey, anytime beats saving 12k a semester. Your future self will thank you - commuting is only temporary. Look into being an RA!

That’s pretty close to where I am! Would you say that your social life is really bad? Or is it just the exhaustion that makes the commute bad? What about between classes, do you simply go to a library and study there? Or hang out with friends? Thanks!

My social life on a scale 6/10 which I’m fine with! I’ve accepted that I’m going to have a different experience than most- but I also love my family and being around them. When hanging out with friends, I also offer “let’s get dinner! Or boba”. I even had friends sleep over my place in Jersey :)

Oh that’s nice, and yeah different experience for sure.

damn, do u pay full tuition tho?

Thank you for this, getting lots of mixed responses here

What part of Long Island? I’ve been driving for three years and have finally gotten an apartment

I was a commuter at Hoboken train station in New Jersy to NYU Tandon last year. I would say I love the commuting experience. I took the path train first to WTC every day and take another A/C train to Tandon. I love the energy that is passed on by seeing people rushing to different places to start their day. I also treat commuting as an exercise. :)

That’s a nice view of it all, guess it’s part of “the city life”, I had a question though, I read that there was a shuttle between the main campus and tandon, why don’t you use it if you dont mind me asking? Is it simply you not being near campus or just preference? Or is there something wrong with the actual shuttle? Thanks

Oh，that is probably because I live right next to the hoboken train station. My leaving time everyday is more flexible if I choose to take the train. You can definitely check out the shuttle.

Ah okay, thanks!

This is comforting to hear cuz I think I will totally feel the same way. I live in NJ and that's how I feel when I come home on weekends. Trying commuting for this semester, lets see how it goes :')

It's. It's something. Making friends is a net zero game for me- I dormed, now I kinda commute and stay in the city sometimes.  Depends. But very isolating, very tiring, but I'm convinced that's how NYU is. I have no friends and I tried clubs and it barely worked, especially with being so exhausted all of the time. Activities are at night but that's less of an issue than people just. Naturally didn't like me, I  guess. Generally don't let this deter you, the degree will be worth it and if anything having an off campus job can lessen the isolation a lot.

yeah, I mean my mindset atm is that I’m here to study and simply move on in life, still would rather make a few friends than nothing but, I’m not really expecting much 🤷‍♂️

yeah that's the spirit. it's really disappointing because college isn't supposed to be like that and a lot of the other students get along fine but minorities &amp; commuters are left in the dust imo.

Hoboken commuter here, it can be draining at times but honestly I’ve found it best to just camp out in the library for a bit.