For many students, the college experience begins the moment they step out of their dorm room. For me, it begins when the subway doors close.

As a junior at NYU double-majoring in Journalism and Africana Studies , I’ve been commuting to campus for over a year—though in truth, I’ve been riding New York City public transportation for as long as I can remember. The MTA has been as much a part of my education as any classroom, teaching me lessons about time, patience, and self-awareness.

Commuting as a college student in New York is both a challenge and a privilege. On one hand, you’re not waking up steps away from Washington Square Park and walking over to class. On the other, you’re constantly moving through a city that’s as much a learning environment as NYU itself.

The Subway Can Be a Classroom too!

Subway transportation can be difficult to comprehend. As a newly admitted student, it’s important to learn the best routes around campus. This is exactly why I highly recommend reading How to Navigate New York City’s Complex Transportation System . This was one of my first articles I read after becoming a commuter. Although I knew most of the tips as a native New Yorker, I was able to find tips for the NJ Transit system as well! This made my commute easier whenever I traveled to see family.

Riding the subway every morning has taught me how to not only read people but also stay alert and make use of what might otherwise be considered as “lost” time. I’ll catch up on readings for my classes, outline a story for my journalism class, or simply observe the busy city waking up through the train window. Oftentimes, I engage in a friendly conversation with a fellow commuter. For approximately 30 minutes, my commute takes me through neighborhoods with their own energy and culture—from the famous Spanish Harlem to the quiet residential streets of Midtown and eventually the rush of Downtown Manhattan. Oftentimes, I see fellow NYU commuters running to catch the already late train to campus. Each trip is a reminder that New York is more than just NYU’s campus.

Tips & Tricks from an NYU Commuter

For those who are new to commuting, my biggest advice is to make the most of your travel time and, most importantly, pay attention. Yes, download your readings, listen to podcasts related to your coursework, or practice a language if you’re learning one while commuting, but also be observant. The city never sleeps, meaning it’s constantly changing. Keep up!

Another tip: Invest in a good pair of headphones. Whether you’re blocking out noise to focus on work or letting music energize you before class, they make a difference. I highly recommend Beats or Sony WH-1000XM4 (not kidding it’s a real thing). Though, you may want to turn on transparency mode so you are aware of your surroundings!

And perhaps most importantly, don’t let your commute stop you from engaging in campus life. “How do you stay involved with campus life?” is one of my most asked questions I receive from many prospective students and families. I must admit, in the beginning it can be a bit difficult stepping out of your comfort zone to attend campus events, especially if it’s your first time around. But the more you stick around after class—joining clubs, making and hanging out with friends—the more NYU feels like home. There is a community for commuters within NYU . You are left feeling as though you never really left campus in the first place. As a commuter student, I am a part of many clubs, including Gentlemen of Quality , Academic Achievement Program and even CAS Presidential Honors Program . Most of my friends come from these clubs and programs. Thinking back to my first year at NYU, I remember signing up for drag bingo with all my friends and ending up winning the grand prize.

Each student has their own way of navigating the city. For commuters like me, the subway isn’t just transportation—it’s part of our college story. Every ride is a reminder that our education doesn’t stop when we leave campus; in New York, it’s always in motion.

Hi! I’m Sosa (he/him), a junior in the College of Arts and Science double majoring in Journalism and Africana Studies. I’m originally from The Bronx, and I’ve been diving deep into storytelling, identity, and media through my studies at NYU. On campus, I’m a supervisor for the Admissions Ambassador program under the Marketing and Recruitment team, where I love connecting with prospective students and sharing what makes NYU special. When I’m not giving amazing tours, you’ll probably find me playing basketball with friends or listening to J. Cole on the weekends.

A futuristic skyline meets historic streets and buildings. Explore life in one of the largest cities in the world.

Related Posts NYU Shanghai Student LifeA futuristic skyline meets historic streets and buildings. Explore life in one of the largest… My Favorite NYC Activities on a Student Budget Welcome to Your Life as an NYU Student!With the release of EDI decisions, students reflect on…

With the release of EDI decisions, students reflect on their experiences and memories from Welcome Week at NYU's campuses in New York City, Abu Dhabi, and Shanghai.

Meet NYU is your inside look at the undergraduate experience of an NYU student. Join our mailing list to receive periodic updates about life at NYU, academic programs, and how to apply.